README.md, before:

# Kenny

Kenny is a solution for using Password Manager Pro as a back-end for Royal TS
documents using Dynamic Folder and Dynamic Credential technology.

With Kenny, [logins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yK0P1Bk8Cx4) to managed
servers is a one-step process.

## Architecture / project layout

Kenny externally consists of one main project, Kenny, that:

- periodically fetches information from the Password Manager Pro
  API and SQL Database and stores it on disk.
- provides authenticated and authorized access to the fetched data.
  Additionally, it will fetch passwords from the PMP API on
  demand.
- is intended to run as a Windows Service.

In addition there are are two more projects:

- PmpApiClient is a common library for interacting with the
  Password Manager Pro API.
- PmpApiTests contains unit tests for the PmpApiClient library.
- PmpSqlClient is a common library for interacting with the
  Password Manager Pro SQL Database

## Building / publishing

The main application is Kenny. To build it for installation, simply `cd`
into the root directory of the repository and run `dotnet build` followed by
`dotnet publish`. You will need the .NET Core 6.0 SDK installed for that to
work.

## Installing

### Create Active Directory account

An Active Directory account needs to be created in the domain for the service.
The service must has an SPN associated to it like this:

`setspn -S HTTP/kenny.contoso.com contoso\svc.kenny`

Make sure that the SPN matches the FQDN of the API server.

### Copy files

After building Kenny, grab the files out of Kenny\bin\Debug\net6.0
and put them on the server. In this example, I will put them in C:\Kenny

### Log on as service permissions

To establish Log on as a service rights for a service user account:

1. Open the Local Security Policy editor by running secpol.msc.
2. Expand the Local Policies node and select User Rights Assignment.
3. Open the Log on as a service policy.
4. Select Add User or Group.
5. Provide the object name (user account) using either of the following approaches:
    - Type the user account ({DOMAIN OR COMPUTER NAME\USER}) in the object name field and select OK to add the user to the policy.
    - Select Advanced. Select Find Now. Select the user account from the list. Select OK. Select OK again to add the user to the policy.
6. Select OK or Apply to accept the changes.

### Add event log source

This has to be run as an admin:

    New-EventLog -Source Kenny -LogName Application

### SSL Certificate

Kenny can use a SSL certificate enrolled to the machine by configuring appsettings.json like this:

    {
        "Logging": {
            "LogLevel": {
            "Default": "Information",
            "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
        }
    },
    "AllowedHosts": "*",
    "Kestrel": {
        "Endpoints": {
            "Https": {
                "Url": "https://0.0.0.0:5000",
                "Certificate": {
                    "Subject": "kenny.contoso.com",
                    "Store": "My",
                    "Location": "LocalMachine",
                    "AllowInvalid": "true"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }

You will need to grant the service account read permissions to the private key.
(Use the MMC snap-in for certificates, pointed at the local machine, and grant
read permissions to the private key to the service account.)

### Set file permissions and create service

The following Powershell snippet will set the appopriate file permissions and create the service. Make sure to edit the variable definitions at the top!

    $app_path = "C:\Kenny"
    $service_user = "contoso\svc.kenny"
    
    $exe_path = Join-Path $app_path "Kenny.exe"
    $acl = Get-Acl "$app_path"
    $aclRuleArgs = $service_user, "Read,Write,ReadAndExecute", "ContainerInherit,ObjectInherit", "None", "Allow"
    $accessRule = New-Object System.Security.AccessControl.FileSystemAccessRule($aclRuleArgs)
    $acl.SetAccessRule($accessRule)
    $acl | Set-Acl "$app_path"

    New-Service -Name "Kenny" -BinaryPathName (Join-Path $app_path "Kenny.exe") -Credential $service_user -Description "Kenny integrates Royal TS with Password Manager Pro" -DisplayName "Kenny" -StartupType Automatic

### Add API keys and SQL connection strung

Adding API keys happens by editing the `PmpApi` property of the
`appsettings.json` file in the C:\Kenny`. folder (or wherever Kenny has been installed.)

Configure the SQL server connection string in `appsettings.json` as per the example below.

The file should look like this:

    {
      /* 8<----- */
      "PmpApi": {
        "ApiBaseUri": "https://pmpserver.contoso.com/",
        "ApiAuthToken": "SecureLuggage12345"
        "ConnectionString": "Data Source=DSPMP-DB04\\PMP;Persist Security Info=False;Initial Catalog=PassTrix;Integrated Security=true"
      }
      /* 8<----- */
    }

`ApiBaseUri` (mandatory) determines the location of the Password Manager Pro
server.

`ApiAuthToken` (mandatory) is the authentication token belinging to the
Password Manager Pro API user.

## Royal TS Configuration

Add a dynamic folder with the following Dynamic Folder Script (Powershell):

    $ProgressPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'
    [System.Console]::OutputEncoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::UTF8
    (Invoke-WebRequest -UseDefaultCredentials -Method Get -Uri https://kenny.contoso.com:5000/DynamicFolder).Content

... and the following Dynamic Credential Script (Powershell):

    $ProgressPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'
    [System.Console]::OutputEncoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::UTF8
    $credid = '$DynamicCredential.EffectiveID$'
    (Invoke-WebRequest -UseDefaultCredentials -Method Get -Uri "https://kenny.contoso.com:5000/DynamicCredential?dynamicCredentialId=$credid").Content

You will need to edit the script to edit the hostname of the Kenny server.

Commit message:

Change ID for Royal TS objects into GUIDs

README.md, after:

# Kenny

Kenny is a solution for using Password Manager Pro as a back-end for Royal TS
documents using Dynamic Folder and Dynamic Credential technology.

With Kenny, [logins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yK0P1Bk8Cx4) to managed
servers is a one-step process.

## Architecture / project layout

Kenny externally consists of one main project, Kenny, that:

- periodically fetches information from the Password Manager Pro
  API and SQL Database and stores it on disk.
- provides authenticated and authorized access to the fetched data.
  Additionally, it will fetch passwords from the PMP API on
  demand.
- is intended to run as a Windows Service.

In addition there are are two more projects:

- PmpApiClient is a common library for interacting with the
  Password Manager Pro API.
- PmpApiTests contains unit tests for the PmpApiClient library.
- PmpSqlClient is a common library for interacting with the
  Password Manager Pro SQL Database

## Building / publishing

The main application is Kenny. To build it for installation, simply `cd`
into the root directory of the repository and run `dotnet build` followed by
`dotnet publish`. You will need the .NET Core 6.0 SDK installed for that to
work.

## Installing

### Create Active Directory account

An Active Directory account needs to be created in the domain for the service.
The service must has an SPN associated to it like this:

`setspn -S HTTP/kenny.contoso.com contoso\svc.kenny`

Make sure that the SPN matches the FQDN of the API server.

### Copy files

After building Kenny, grab the files out of Kenny\bin\Debug\net6.0
and put them on the server. In this example, I will put them in C:\Kenny

### Log on as service permissions

To establish Log on as a service rights for a service user account:

1. Open the Local Security Policy editor by running secpol.msc.
2. Expand the Local Policies node and select User Rights Assignment.
3. Open the Log on as a service policy.
4. Select Add User or Group.
5. Provide the object name (user account) using either of the following approaches:
    - Type the user account ({DOMAIN OR COMPUTER NAME\USER}) in the object name field and select OK to add the user to the policy.
    - Select Advanced. Select Find Now. Select the user account from the list. Select OK. Select OK again to add the user to the policy.
6. Select OK or Apply to accept the changes.

### Add event log source

This has to be run as an admin:

    New-EventLog -Source Kenny -LogName Application

### SSL Certificate

Kenny can use a SSL certificate enrolled to the machine by configuring appsettings.json like this:

    {
        "Logging": {
            "LogLevel": {
            "Default": "Information",
            "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
        }
    },
    "AllowedHosts": "*",
    "Kestrel": {
        "Endpoints": {
            "Https": {
                "Url": "https://0.0.0.0:5000",
                "Certificate": {
                    "Subject": "kenny.contoso.com",
                    "Store": "My",
                    "Location": "LocalMachine",
                    "AllowInvalid": "true"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }

You will need to grant the service account read permissions to the private key.
(Use the MMC snap-in for certificates, pointed at the local machine, and grant
read permissions to the private key to the service account.)

### Set file permissions and create service

The following Powershell snippet will set the appopriate file permissions and create the service. Make sure to edit the variable definitions at the top!

    $app_path = "C:\Kenny"
    $service_user = "contoso\svc.kenny"
    
    $exe_path = Join-Path $app_path "Kenny.exe"
    $acl = Get-Acl "$app_path"
    $aclRuleArgs = $service_user, "Read,Write,ReadAndExecute", "ContainerInherit,ObjectInherit", "None", "Allow"
    $accessRule = New-Object System.Security.AccessControl.FileSystemAccessRule($aclRuleArgs)
    $acl.SetAccessRule($accessRule)
    $acl | Set-Acl "$app_path"

    New-Service -Name "Kenny" -BinaryPathName (Join-Path $app_path "Kenny.exe") -Credential $service_user -Description "Kenny integrates Royal TS with Password Manager Pro" -DisplayName "Kenny" -StartupType Automatic

### Add API keys and SQL connection strung

Adding API keys happens by editing the `PmpApi` property of the
`appsettings.json` file in the C:\Kenny`. folder (or wherever Kenny has been installed.)

Configure the SQL server connection string in `appsettings.json` as per the example below.

The file should look like this:

    {
      /* 8<----- */
      "PmpApi": {
        "ApiBaseUri": "https://pmpserver.contoso.com/",
        "ApiAuthToken": "SecureLuggage12345"
        "ConnectionString": "Data Source=DSPMP-DB04\\PMP;Persist Security Info=False;Initial Catalog=PassTrix;Integrated Security=true"
      }
      /* 8<----- */
    }

`ApiBaseUri` (mandatory) determines the location of the Password Manager Pro
server.

`ApiAuthToken` (mandatory) is the authentication token belinging to the
Password Manager Pro API user.

### Royal TS Credential Namespace GUID

In order to allow for credentials to be consistently mapped from Royal TS, ever credential needs a GUID. For the GUIDs to be unchanging as long as the resource ID and account ID remaing unchanging, we use version 5 GUIDS.

As part of the GUID calculation, a "namespace GUID" needs to be given which is unique and consistent for any deployment of Kenny.

Generate a random version 4 GUID using your favorite tool and then configure it like this in `appsettings.json`:

    {
      /* 8<----- */
      "RoyalTSNamespaceGuid": "ef862229-bc78-4ac7-b3a9-24a72d1ef538"
      /* 8<----- */
    }

N.B. Do not use this sample GUID unless you want to blindly collide with everyone else who didn't change from the sample GUID.

## Royal TS Configuration

Add a dynamic folder with the following Dynamic Folder Script (Powershell):

    $ProgressPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'
    [System.Console]::OutputEncoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::UTF8
    (Invoke-WebRequest -UseDefaultCredentials -Method Get -Uri https://kenny.contoso.com:5000/DynamicFolder).Content

... and the following Dynamic Credential Script (Powershell):

    $ProgressPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'
    [System.Console]::OutputEncoding = [System.Text.Encoding]::UTF8
    $r = '$DynamicCredential.CustomField1$'
    $c = '$DynamicCredential.CustomField2$'
    (Invoke-WebRequest -UseDefaultCredentials -Method Get -Uri "https://kenny.contoso.com:5000/DynamicCredential?resourceId=$r&accountId=$c").Content

You will need to edit the script to edit the hostname of the Kenny server.
